Skip to Main Content

Journals Magazine
Subscribe
Analytical Science Journals
Search
Search within
This Journal
Search term
Search

DAVID
Publications
 
Topics
 
Author Resources
Webinars & Events
Luminescence
Luminescence
Navigation Bar
MenuHomeAboutAuthorsBrowse
RSS Feeds
Author Guidelines
For additional tools visit Author Resources — an enhanced suite of online tools for Wiley InterScience journal authors, featuring Article Tracking, E-mail Publication Alerts and Customized Research Tools.

Permission Request Form
The National Institutes of Health Public Access Initiative
Please click here to read the Author Guidelines in Chinese.

Sections

1. Submission
2. Aims and Scope
3. Manuscript Categories and Requirements
4. Preparing the Submission
5. Editorial Policies and Ethical Considerations
6. Author Licensing
7. Publication Process After Acceptance
8. Post Publication


1. SUBMISSION

Thank you for your interest in Luminescence. Please read the complete Author Guidelines carefully prior to submission, including the section on copyright.

Note that submission implies that the content has not been published or submitted for publication elsewhere except as a brief abstract in the proceedings of a scientific meeting or symposium.

Once you have prepared your submission in accordance with the Guidelines, manuscripts should be submitted online at https://wiley.atyponrex.com/journal/BIO 

IMPORTANT: Please check whether you already have an account in the system before trying to create a new one. If you have reviewed or authored for the journal in the past year it is likely that you will have created an account. File types. Preferred formats for the text and tables of your manuscript are .doc, .rtf, .ppt, .xls. LaTeX files may be submitted provided that an .eps or .pdf file is provided in addition to the source files. Figures may be provided in .tiff or .eps format. If submitting your manuscript file in LaTeX format via Research Exchange, select the file designation “Main Document – LaTeX .tex File” on upload. When submitting a LaTeX Main Document, you must also provide a PDF version of the manuscript for Peer Review. Please upload this file as “Main Document - LaTeX PDF.” All supporting files that are referred to in the LaTeX Main Document should be uploaded as a “LaTeX Supplementary File.”

You may check the status of your submission at any time by logging on to submission.wiley.com and clicking the “My Submissions” button. For technical help with the submission system, please review our FAQs or contact submissionhelp@wiley.com. 

We look forward to your submission.

Initial Submission

NON-LATEX USERS: Editable source files must be uploaded at this stage. Tables must be on separate pages after the reference list, and not be incorporated into the main text. Figures should be uploaded as separate figure files.

LATEX USERS: For reviewing purposes you should upload a single .pdf that you have generated from your source files. You must use the File Designation "Main Document" from the dropdown box. 

Revised Submission

NON-LATEX USERS: Editable source files must be uploaded at this stage. Tables must be on separate pages after the reference list, and not be incorporated into the main text. Figures should be uploaded as separate figure files.

LATEX USERS: When submitting your revision you must still upload a single .pdf that you have generated from your now revised source files. You must use the File Designation "Main Document" from the dropdown box. In addition, you must upload your TeX source files. For all your source files you must use the File Designation "Supplemental Material not for review". Previous versions of uploaded documents must be deleted. If your manuscript is accepted for publication we will use the files you upload to typeset your article within a totally digital workflow.


LaTeX Guidelines for Post-Acceptance: 

Please check that you have supplied the following files for typesetting post-acceptance:  

PDF of the finalized source manuscript files compiled without any errors. 
The LaTeX source code files (text, figure captions, and tables, preferably in a single file), BibTeX files (if used), any associated packages/files along with all other files needed for compiling without any errors. This is particularly important if authors have used any LaTeX style or class files, bibliography files (.bbl, .bst. .blg) or packages apart from those used in the NJD LaTeX Template class file.  
Electronic graphics files for the illustrations in Encapsulated PostScript (EPS), PDF or TIFF format. Authors are requested not to create figures using LaTeX codes.
Data protection

By submitting a manuscript to or reviewing for this publication, your name, email address, and affiliation, and other contact details the publication might be used for the regular operations of the publication, including, when necessary, sharing with the publisher (Wiley) and partners for production and publication. The publication and the publisher recognize the importance of protecting the personal information collected from users in the operation of these services, and have practices in place to ensure that steps are taken to maintain the security, integrity, and privacy of the personal data collected and processed. You can learn more at https://authorservices.wiley.com/statements/data-protection-policy.html


2. AIMS AND SCOPE

Luminescence provides a forum for the publication of research articles, short communications, reviews, editorials on fundamental and applied aspects of all forms of luminescence, including photoluminescence, chemiluminescence, electroluminescence, bioluminescence, sonoluminescence, mechanoluminescence, cathodoluminescence, crystalloluminescence, and cryoluminescence etc. Luminescence publishes papers broadly covering all sub-fields of optics, photonics and electromagnetics, in particular for fluorescence- and/or phosphorescence-involved material preparations, analytical methods, instrumentations, mechanistic studies, spectrum analyses, and various applications bioimaging, phototherapy, photoelectric devices, photocatalysis, optical sensing, optical detection. Luminescence also publishes details of forthcoming meetings, information on new products, and book reviews. A special feature of the journal is surveys of the recent literature on selected topics in luminescence.


3. MANUSCRIPT CATEGORIES AND REQUIREMENTS

Research Articles are full-length articles presenting original, high-quality research results. The vast majority of articles submitted to and published by Luminescence are Research Articles. 

Short Communications must be complete, self-contained papers, and not preliminary reports. In style and presentation they should conform to that laid down for manuscripts but length should not exceed two printed pages in the journal. As a rough guide, two printed pages will consist of about 800 words of main text, with an abstract, one small figure to fit a single column (width 84 mm), one small table and a short reference list. They will be given preference over papers in speed of publication although the author should inform the Editor why priority is warranted.

Reviews will usually be written at the invitation of the Editors. Unsolicited reviews will be welcome but authors wishing to submit a review are requested to consult the Editors prior to commencement.

Editorials are only invited by editors. Proposals for Editorials may be submitted; however, in this case authors should only send an outline of the proposed paper for initial consideration.


4. PREPARING THE SUBMISSION

Language requirements

Papers must be in English. English or American spelling is acceptable, provided usage is consistent within the manuscript.

Manuscripts that are written in English that is ambiguous or incomprehensible, in the opinion of the Editor, will be returned to the authors with a request to resubmit once the language issues have been improved. This policy does not imply that all papers must be written in "perfect" English, whatever that may mean. Rather, the criterion will require that the intended meaning of the authors must be clearly understandable, i.e., not obscured by language problems, by referees who have agreed to review the paper.

Pre-submission English-language editing

Authors for whom English is a second language may choose to have their manuscript professionally edited before submission to improve the English. Visit our site to learn about the options. All services are paid for and arranged by the author. Please note using the Wiley English Language Editing Service does not guarantee that your paper will be accepted by this journal.

Optimising Your Article for Search Engines

Many students and researchers looking for information online will use search engines such as Google, Yahoo or similar. By optimising your article for search engines, you will increase the chance of someone finding it. This in turn will make it more likely to be viewed and/or cited in another work. We have compiled these guidelines to enable you to maximise the web-friendliness of the most public part of your article.

Manuscript style

It is not necessary to double-line space your manuscript. Tables must be on separate pages after the reference list, and not be incorporated into the main text. Figures should be uploaded as separate figure files.

• During the submission process you must enter
1) the full title
2) names and affiliations of all authors and
3) the full address, including email, telephone and fax of the author who is to check the proofs.

• Include the name(s) of any sponsor(s) of the research contained in the paper, along with grant number(s).

Abstract. Enter an abstract of no more than 250 words for all articles. The abstract must be a concise (up to 200 words) summary of the whole paper, not just the conclusions, and should be understandable without reference to the rest of the paper. It should contain no citation to other published work. Please see the guidance below on acceptable abstract writing for BIO.

• Keywords. Authors should prepare no more than 5 keywords for their manuscript.

• The text should be divided into the following sections: Introduction, Experimental, Results, Discussion and References. Sufficient experimental detail must be provided to allow repetition of the work, and for specific materials and equipment the manufacturer's name and location should be provided. New compounds should be adequately characterised.

Writing Abstracts

An abstract is a concise summary of the whole paper, not just the conclusions. The abstract should be no more than 250 words and convey the following:
1. An introduction to the work. This should be accessible by scientists in any field and express the necessity of the experiments executed
2. Some scientific detail regarding the background to the problem
3. A summary of the main result
4. The implications of the result
5. A broader perspective of the results, once again understandable across scientific disciplines It is crucial that the abstract convey the importance of the work and be understandable without reference to the rest of the manuscript to a multidisciplinary audience. Abstracts should not contain any citation to other published works.

Reference Style

References: All references should be numbered consecutively in order of appearance. In text citations should be superscript numbers in square brackets. Sample references follow:

Journal article:

[1] S. Matosevic, B.M. Paegel, Nat. Chem. 2013, 5, 958.

Book:

[2] R. McWeeny, Coulson’s Valence, 3rd ed., Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1979.

For more information see the Materials Science Journals House Style Guide.

Conventions adopted by BIO

Quantities, Units, Abbreviations and Nomenclature.

Use only SI quantities and units (SI: Système International d’Unités). If data with non-SI units is used, then also include, in parentheses, the corresponding data with SI units.
Symbols and abbreviations used to represent variables, constants, quantities, properties etc. must be defined in the text at their first occurrence. In addition, compile a list of all symbols and abbreviations at the end of the text under the heading 'Symbols and Abbreviations'.
All nomenclature should follow established rules where these are available.
Abbreviations are not acceptable in the title or abstract.
Non-standard units must be defined.
Tables

Tables should be part of the main document and should be placed after the references. If the table is created in excel the file should be uploaded separately.

Illustrations and ChemDraw Rules

Upload each figure as a separate file in either .tiff or .eps format, with the figure number and the top of the figure indicated. Compound figures e.g. 1a, b, c should be uploaded as one figure. Tints are not acceptable. Lettering must be of a reasonable size that would still be clearly legible upon reduction, and consistent within each figure and set of figures. Where a key to symbols is required, please include this in the artwork itself, not in the figure legend. All illustrations must be supplied at the correct resolution:

• Black and white and colour photos - 300 dpi
• Graphs, drawings, etc - 800 dpi preferred; 600 dpi minimum
• Combinations of photos and drawings (black and white and colour) - 500 dpi

Chemical structures should be prepared in ChemDraw either 80mm (one column) or 175mm (two columns) widths. However, the one-column format should be used whenever possible as this allows greater flexibility in the layout of the manuscript. Use this ChemDraw Download or use the following settings:

Drawing settings

Text settings

chain angle

120°

font

Arial

bond spacing

18% of length

size

12 pt

fixed length

17 pt

 
bond width

2 pt

Preferences

line width

0.75 pt

units

points

margin width

2 pt

tolerances

5 pixels

hash spacing

2.6 pt

 	 
Bold width

2.6 pt

 
 

Cover Image

Some journals accept artwork submissions for Cover Images. This is an optional service you can use to help increase article exposure and showcase your research. Pricing and placement options vary by journal. For more information, including artwork guidelines, pricing, and submission details, please visit the Journal Cover Image page.

Graphical Abstract/Graphical TOC

The journal’s table of contents will be presented in graphical form with a brief abstract for research articles and reviews, in addition to the up to 250 words abstract above. The online Graphical Abstract/TOC includes a schematic figure that best represents the scope of the paper, alongside a brief abstract summarizing the key findings presented in the paper. Authors should submit a stand-alone and original image to be displayed in the Graphical TOC, or designate an image already included in the article. The image supplied should conform to standard figure requirements and fit within the dimensions of 50mm x 60mm and be fully legible at this size. Text labels in the graphic should be limited and long sentences should be avoided. Your brief abstract should consist of 50-60 words or 2-3 sentences. Table of contents entries should be submitted to ScholarOne as ‘Graphical Abstract’ during the initial manuscript submission process.

Supporting Information

Supporting information is not essential to the article but provides greater depth and background and may include tables, figures, videos, datasets, etc. This material can be submitted with your manuscript, and will appear online, without editing or typesetting. Guidelines on how to prepare this material and which formats and files sizes are acceptable can be found at: http://authorservices.wiley.com/bauthor/suppmat.asp

Please note that the provision of supporting information is not encouraged as a general rule. It will be assessed critically by reviewers and editors and will only be accepted if it is essential.

Article Preparation Support

Wiley Editing Services offers expert help with English Language Editing, as well as translation, manuscript formatting, figure illustration, figure formatting, and graphical abstract design – so you can submit your manuscript with confidence.

Also, check out our resources for Preparing Your Article for general guidance about writing and preparing your manuscript.


5. EDITORIAL POLICIES AND ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS

Editorial Review and Acceptance Criteria

Papers must clearly be of scientific value in the field. Papers are single-blind reviewed by two independent referees. Contributions must be in English and must not have been published elsewhere, and authors must agree not to communicate the same material for publication to any other journal.

Conflict of Interest

The journal requires that all authors disclose any potential sources of conflict of interest. Any interest or relationship, financial or otherwise that might be perceived as influencing an author's objectivity is considered a potential source of conflict of interest. These must be disclosed when directly relevant or directly related to the work that the authors describe in their manuscript. Potential sources of conflict of interest include, but are not limited to: patent or stock ownership, membership of a company board of directors, membership of an advisory board or committee for a company, and consultancy for or receipt of speaker's fees from a company. The existence of a conflict of interest does not preclude publication. If the authors have no conflict of interest to declare, they must also state this at submission. It is the responsibility of the corresponding author to review this policy with all authors and collectively to disclose with the submission ALL pertinent commercial and other relationships. 

Funding

Authors should list all funding sources in the Acknowledgments section. Authors are responsible for the accuracy of their funder designation. If in doubt, please check the Open Funder Registry for the correct nomenclature: https://www.crossref.org/services/funder-registry/

Authorship

The list of authors should accurately illustrate who contributed to the work and how. All those listed as authors should qualify for authorship according to the following criteria:

Have made substantial contributions to conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; and
Been involved in drafting the manuscript or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and
Given final approval of the version to be published. Each author should have participated sufficiently in the work to take public responsibility for appropriate portions of the content; and 
Agreed to be accountable for all aspects of the work in ensuring that questions related to the accuracy or integrity of any part of the work are appropriately investigated and resolved. 
Contributions from anyone who does not meet the criteria for authorship should be listed, with permission from the contributor, in an Acknowledgments section (for example, to recognize contributions from people who provided technical help, collation of data, writing assistance, acquisition of funding, or a department chairperson who provided general support). Prior to submitting the article, all authors should agree on the order in which their names will be listed in the manuscript.

Additional Authorship Options

Joint first or senior authorship: In the case of joint first authorship, a footnote should be added to the author listing, e.g. ‘X and Y should be considered joint first author’ or ‘X and Y should be considered joint senior author.’

Data Sharing and Data Availability
The journal expects authors to share the data and other artefacts supporting the results in the paper by archiving it in an appropriate public repository. Authors should include a data accessibility statement in the manuscript, including a link to the repository they have used, in order that this statement can be published alongside their paper. Review Wiley’s Data Sharing policy and Wiley’s Data Citation policy where you will be able to see and select the data availability statement that is right for your submission. When citing or making claims based on data, authors should refer to the data at the relevant place in the manuscript text and in addition provide a formal citation in the reference list. We recommend the format proposed by the Joint Declaration of Data Citation Principles:

[dataset] Authors; Year; Dataset title; Data repository or archive; Version (if any); Persistent identifier (e.g. DOI)

Refer and Transfer Program 

Wiley believes that no valuable research should go unshared. This journal participates in Wiley’s Refer & Transfer program. If your manuscript is not accepted, you may receive a recommendation to transfer your manuscript to another suitable Wiley journal, either through a referral from the journal’s editor or through our Transfer Desk Assistant.

ORCID

As part of the journal’s commitment to supporting authors at every step of the publishing process, the journal requires the submitting author (only) to provide an ORCID iD when submitting a manuscript. This takes around 2 minutes to complete. Find more information here. To register for an ORCID iD, please go to https://orcid.org/.

Publication Ethics

This journal is a member of the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE). Note this journal uses iThenticate’s CrossCheck software to detect instances of overlapping and similar text in submitted manuscripts. Read Wiley’s Top 10 Publishing Ethics Tips for Authors here. Wiley’s Publication Ethics Guidelines can be found here.

6. AUTHOR LICENSING

Accepted papers will be passed to Wiley’s production team for publication. The author identified as the formal corresponding author for the paper will receive an email prompting them to login into Wiley’s Author Services, where via the Wiley Author Licensing Service (WALS) they will be asked to complete an electronic license agreement on behalf of all authors on the paper.

Authors may choose to publish under the terms of the journal’s standard copyright transfer agreement (CTA), or under open access terms made available via Open Access.

Standard Copyright Transfer Agreement: FAQs about the terms and conditions of the standard CTA in place for the journal, including standard terms regarding archiving of the accepted version of the paper, are available at: Copyright Terms and Conditions FAQs.

Note that in signing the journal’s license agreement authors agree that consent to reproduce figures from another source has been obtained.

Open Access publication: is available to authors of articles who wish to make their article freely available to all on Wiley Online Library under a Creative Commons license. With Open Access, the author, the author's funding agency, or the author's institution pays a fee to ensure that the article is made open access. Authors of Open Access articles are permitted to post the final, published PDF of their article on their personal website, and in an institutional repository or other free public server immediately after publication. All Open Access articles are treated in the same way as any other article. They go through the journal's standard peer-review process and will be accepted or rejected based on their own merit.

Open Access fees: Authors who choose to publish Open Access will be charged a fee. For more information on this journal’s APCs, please see the Open Access page.

Open Access licenses: Authors choosing Open Access retain copyright in their article and have a choice of publishing under the following Creative Commons License terms: Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY); Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial License (CC BY NC); Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial-NoDerivs License (CC BY NC ND). To preview the terms and conditions of these open access agreements please visit the Copyright Terms and Conditions FAQs.

Funder Open Access and Self-Archiving Compliance: Please click here for more information on Wiley’s compliance with specific Funder Open Access and Self Archiving Policies, and click here for more detailed information specifically about Self-Archiving definitions and policies.

7. PUBLICATION PROCESS AFTER ACCEPTANCE

Wiley’s Author Services

Author Services enables authors to track their article throughout the production process to publication online and in print. Authors can check the status of their articles online and choose to receive automated e-mails at key stages of production. The corresponding author will receive a unique link that enables them to register and have their article automatically added to the system. Please ensure that a complete e-mail address is provided when submitting the manuscript. Visit www.wileyauthors.com/track for more details on online production tracking.

Accepted Articles

Please kindly note that substantial changes to the manuscript after acceptance may require a re-evaluation by peer reviewers. If you have any questions or updates after your manuscript’s acceptance, please contact the editorial office at your earliest convenience.

Proofs

Authors will receive an e-mail notification with a link and instructions for accessing HTML page proofs online. Page proofs should be carefully proofread for any copyediting or typesetting errors. Online guidelines are provided within the system. No special software is required, all common browsers are supported. Authors should also make sure that any renumbered tables, figures, or references match text citations and that figure legends correspond with text citations and actual figures. Proofs must be returned within 48 hours of receipt of the email. Return of proofs via e-mail is possible in the event that the online system cannot be used or accessed.

Continuous Publication

Under a Continuous Publication model used at Wiley, journal articles are published directly into an online issue with their final citations as soon as they are ready. There is no issue curation and no issue pagination; articles publish when they have completed production and are not held for upcoming issues. The ability to publish an article online before its issue is completed provides faster publishing of articles with final citation details for the academic community.

8. POST PUBLICATION

Article PDF for authors

A PDF of the article will be made available to the corresponding author via Author Services.

Author Marketing Toolkit

The Wiley Author Marketing Toolkit provides authors with support on how to use social media, publicity, conferences, multimedia, email and the web to promote their article.

Article Promotion Support

Wiley Editing Services offers professional video, design, and writing services to create shareable video abstracts, infographics, conference posters, lay summaries, and research news stories for your research – so you can help your research get the attention it deserves.

Sign up for email alerts

Submit an article
As of December 5, 2023 all new Luminescence manuscripts are submitted through the Research Exchange platform.

Start your submission
For submissions started prior to December 5, 2023 please visit Manuscript Central to manage or complete your submission.

Journal Metrics
More from this journal
Call for Papers
See Your Article on the Cover
Wiley Editing Services
Professionally-edited manuscripts are accepted more than twice as often. Take the stress out of manuscript writing with Article Preparation services.

English Language Editing
Figure Formatting
Manuscript Formatting
Manuscript Language Checker (Free)
Graphical Abstract Design
View all services
 back
Additional links
About Wiley Online Library
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
About Cookies
Manage Cookies
Accessibility
Wiley Research DE&I Statement and Publishing Policies
Help & Support
Contact Us
Training and Support
DMCA & Reporting Piracy
Sitemap
Opportunities
Subscription Agents
Advertisers & Corporate Partners
Connect with Wiley
The Wiley Network
Wiley Press Room
Copyright © 1999-2025 John Wiley & Sons, Inc or related companies. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining and training of artificial intelligence technologies or similar technologies.


Wiley Home Page